
PROFESSIONAL   PROFILE
? Senior level in Supply Chain and Source-to-pay (S2P) process starting from finding, negotiating with, and contracting the supplier of goods, and ending with supplier performance continuous review, passing through the full planning cycle and restrictions, trade compliance, logistics, freight, and final payment for those goods, considering working capital and revenue recognition management.
? Designed full procurement process cycle: Requirement definition, Tendering and sourcing, Evaluation and selection, Contract risk, Contract awarding, Contract management and Procurement planning,
? Designed supplier management system, full profile with scorecard and behavior, claims and meetings.
? Digitalized Inventory Control system considering modern techniques (MRP, EOQ, ABC, JIT, RoP, FIFO/FEFO, Min-Max, VMI, Consignment, Drop Shipping, Pull/Push) and all restrictions and uncertainties including: Product-mix, Shelf live, Space availability, MoQ, MoV, Lead time, ..
? Digitized traffic-like orders and shipments control tower to ensure visibility and alerts
? Designed	warehouse	operatin,	layout,	Item	Master,	Method	Statement	for loading/keeping/handling/offloading processes for each SKU (more than 10,000 SKUs)
? Full understanding of Saudi Trade (Import/Export) Compliance requirements and platforms: Fasah, Saber, Chemical permits, MoI, CITC, MoC, SFDA/Ghad, NCEC, Customs and Exemption.
? Set up Strategies and Business Rules, Policies and Procedures, SMART Objectives and KPIs,
? Senior level of Leadership, Scope Management, Coaching, Developing and Training, Projects Management, Governance and Control, Resources and Capabilities Utilization, Compliance, Risk Managements, Digitalization and developing sustainable solutions with cross functional collaboration harmony and synergy.
? Working experience with FMCG retail and manufacturing businesses, B2B and B2C, O&G, Plastics, Glass, Wood, HVAC, safety, and PPE, with top international companies (US and Germany based).
WORK EXPERIENCE

MOST RECENT; LAST 13 YEARS (SAUDI ARABIA)
? Supply Chain Manager – Aujan Industrial Supplies and Services,	Dammam, Oct 2019 to Oct 2021
? VP of Supply Chain, IT and Projects – United Arab Float Glass Co,	Yanbu, Aug 2018 to Aug 2019
? Supply Chain Manager – BASF Construction Chemicals,	Dammam, May 2017 to Aug 2018
? Supply Chain and ERP Manager – Bischof + Klein Company,	Dammam, Jan 2014 to May 2017
? Senior Supply Chain Planner – Nalco Saudi, (US based),	Dammam, Nov 2009 to Nov 2014
PREVIOUSE 10 YEARS (KUWAIT AND JORDAN)
? Purchase and Production Manager– H.Abul Wood Working Factory,	Kuwait, Nov 2007 to Nov 2009
? Production Planning & Control Engineer– RISCO/COOLEX,	Kuwait, Feb 2004 to Nov 2007
? Operations Engineer – Petra Engineering and Industries Co,	Amman, Oct 1998 to Feb 2004

PROFESSIONAL   EDUCATION
? BSc of Industrial Engineering, Univeristy of Jordan, Amman – Jordan –	Sept 1993 to June 1998
? Certified Supply Chain Manager, GS1 Saudi Arabia + ISCEA OH, USA, 2014
? Project Management Professional (PMP) workshop, PMI # 1974871, Saudi Arabia, 2011

HIGHLIGHS AND KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
* Established Supply Chain department (in more than a company), with governance system, procedures and workflows, covering all Supply Chain drivers: Demand & Supply Planning, Forecasting, Sourcing, Contracting, Purchasing, Material & Inventory Management, Warehousing, Logistics & Transportation Management, Customer Service, Production, IT/ERP, Import and Export Trade Compliance, …
* Lead digital transformation processes along with setting business rules with sales and production teams to create synergy, avoid surprises and reduce conflicts
* Managed simultaneously more than 300 Employees with cultural diversity in 3 plants
* Managed 200+ suppliers, 10K+ SKUs, 15M material contracts, 3M transportation contracts
* Saved more 1M$ in a yearly bases, and more than 3M$ of cash and working capital through different processed improvements
* Improved on time delivery achieving 96% service level, and reduced inventory holding days by 50%
* Improved capacity utilization and increasing the average lot size by 15%
* Introduced “Trade Compliance” rule to ensure full compliance with import/export requirements
* Fixed compliance gaps with Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu that blocked issuing EPO
* Building inhouse platforms to support supply shain digitalization, and management control
* Lead different projects: 5 Costing & BoM Audit, 3 Lean 6-Sigma, 2 ERPs Projects and other operational.
TOOLS, SKILLS AND TECHNIQUES
? Root cause analysis and problems solving, Lean and 6-sigma, Shop floor management and 5S, Process redesign and improvement, Value Engineering/Value Analysis VE/VA
? Distribution networking, Trucks and Containers capacity & routes optimization,
? Inventory Control (MRP, MRP II, ROP, EOQ, Min-Max, VMI), Product-mix planning and restrictions, Demand planning and forecasting, equipment’s and manpower flow, traffic plans
? Sourcing and Vendor Development, Negotiation and influencing, Product Costing and tendering, Follow- up and tracking, contracts management and suppliers behavior monitor and analysis,
? Data-based decision making: Descriptive, Predictive and Prescriptive. Qualitative and Quantitative.
? Programs and Project Management: Using the 5 phases of PM as per PMI and PMBOK guidelines,


